Write API: vote/unvote proposals (#15791)
decidim/decidim: docs/modules/develop/pages/api/reference/components/proposals/vote.adoc

= Vote / Unvote Proposal

== Vote Proposal

> To use the API to vote any proposal, you will need to use the following API request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the API to vote any proposal that is configured to receive votes, you will need to use the following API request.
```

[source,graphql]
----
mutation voteProposal($componentId: ID!, $proposalId: ID!){
  component(id: $componentId) {
    ...on ProposalsMutation{
      proposal(id: $proposalId) {
        vote(input: {}) {
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Example of submitted variables

[source,json]
----
{
  "componentId": "9",
  "proposalId": "2"
}
----

=== Error Handling

The most frequent errors that can be generated by this mutation are as follows:

* xref:develop:api/reference/errors/unauthorized_mutation.adoc[Unauthorized Mutation Error - MUTATION_NOT_AUTHORIZED_ERROR]
* xref:develop:api/reference/errors/validation_error.adoc[Validation Error - VALIDATION_ERROR]
* xref:develop:api/reference/errors/unauthorized_object.adoc[Unauthorized Object Error - UNAUTHORIZED_OBJECT_ERROR]

> == Unvote Proposals

Author: fixed by [1e1d35b](https://github.com/decidim/decidim/pull/15791/commits/1e1d35b7daed39a96639d2b213ce6ec414eac37c)

> To use the API to unvote any proposal, you will need to use the following API request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the API to remove a vote on any proposal that you have already voted, you will need to use the following API request.
```
